# Machine-Learning-Heart-Disease
Health Organization 2007). Several different symptoms are associated with heart disease, which makes it difficult to diagnose it quicker and better.  Doctors knowledge to assign the weight to each attribute has been the key in diagnosing till now. More weight is assigned to the attribute having high impact on disease prediction. Therefore it appears reasonable to try utilizing the knowledge and experience of several specialists collected in databases towards assisting the dagnosis process. Data mining is now widely used in many domains. It plays an important role in the clinical field. Several Researchers have suggested various methods for heart disease diagnosis from huge pile of datasets, but there is no proper effective and reliable methodology and usually mining is not efficiently done. We propose to use 5 algorithms in this paper : K Nearest Neighbor, Decision Tree, Naïve Bayes, Logistic Regression and Support Vector Machines and various other iterations of same algorithm to achieve maximum efficiency and reliability. The dataset was obtained from an Open UCI Repository : Cleveland Heart Data. One of the aim would be to reduce the number of attributes involved in decision making while maintaining reliable levels of accuracy and specificity. Reducing the attributes is important so that more data can be collected and hence accuracy can be further improved. The main objective would be however to get maximum accuracy in predicting heart diseases by selecting the right features and assigning the right importance to the attributes
